# Grid5000

The provisioning of Grid5000 machines is done via a script `ouigo` provided in this repository.
It is intended to be run on the machines inside of grid5000  though it can be sufficiently modified to work on machines outside of the network.

## Request a Grid5000 Account

An explanation of how to get an account, and under which conditions you are eligible to do so, can be found on the [Grid5000 Wiki](https://www.grid5000.fr/w/Grid5000:Get_an_account).
The current accounts used by the SCION-Team lie in the `misc` group.

The associated Research Project should be named as `SCIONLab`.

## Connect to the Grid5000 Frontend

The Grid5000 infrastructure is managed via the Grid5000 Intranet, an easy access is provided ssh infrastructure.
To connect simply use the id file provided to Grid5000 registration process.

```bash
$ ssh username@access.grid5000.fr
```

You can connect to all available sites via the internal DNS service. For example connecting to a specific site `lille`:
```bash
$ ssh lille
```
!!! note "Tip"
    You can connect from one node to all others.

### Grid5000 storage

All site storages are available on the `access` nodes via nfs mounted in the home directory. So if you need to transfer any files to specific sites use the directory in the access node.

```bash
scp file user@access.grid5000.fr:site
```

## Run the Testbed Setup Script

Once you've copied all the files to your account and your chosen site (it doesn't matter which one), you're setup to run the testbed.
To do this connect again to your grid5000 site:
```bash
$ ssh -J username@access.grid5000.fr username@site
```

In your home folder you'll find the script

!!! hint "Tip"
    To save a few keystrokes `chmod +x setup_scion.sh`

After that you can check the help page with the `help` subcommand

```bash
$ bash setup_scion.sh help
```

And to initialize the deployment:
```bash
$ bash setup_scion.sh setup
```

This will take a while and allocate available machines and connect them to the desired VLANs.
Afterwards you can output the running machines via the `info` subcommand.

```bash
$ bash setup_scion.sh info
```

The addresses of the machines displayed here can be used to connect to the machines. If you have created the machines yourself, you are free to use the `root` user, which is accessible with the private part of the ssh key provided to grid5000.

```bash
$ ssh root@machine_address
```

!!! hint "Current setup"
    At the current time you'll not be able to connect to the machine in Lille via this command, because this machine is not connected to the internal grid5000 network, to work around this use the host in nancy as jump host.

## Configure Grid5000 Machines

!!! important "TODO"

## Updating a Grid5000 Machine

!!! important "TODO"

## Create Your Own Custom Testbed Configuration

!!! important "TODO"
